Adding Release info to README (#7266)
RasaHQ/rasa: README.md

We host the site on netlify. On master branch builds (see `.github/workflows/documentation.yml`), we push the built docs to
the `documentation` branch. Netlify automatically re-deploys the docs pages whenever there is a change to that branch.

## Releases

> ### Release Timeline for minor releases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Release Timeline for Minor Releases
```

**For Rasa Open Source, we usually commit to time-based releases, specifically on a monthly basis.** 

> This means that we commit beforehand to releasing a specific version of Rasa Open Source on a specific day, 

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
This means that we commit beforehand to release a specific version of Rasa Open Source on a specific day, 
```

Author: I believe the correct way is `releasing` 😅  maybe we need a native speaker to break the tie here ahah

Reviewer: Consider this as non-blocking 😆 
@erohmensing Help please 😄

Reviewer 2: honestly i think both could work, one as a noun and one as a verb -- "we commit to [the act of] releasing a specific version" or "we commit to release a specific version" 

that being said i'd probably go with the noun. "this year i'm committing to running three times a week" 

but now i've thought about it too much and the word looks fake 😛

Author: Ok so I'm leaving it as is 😂

and we cannot be 100% sure what will go in a release, because certain features may not be ready. 

At the beginning of each quarter, the Rasa team will review the scheduled release dates for all products and make sure 
they work for the projected work we have planned for the quarter, as well as work well across products.

**Once the dates are settled upon, we update the respective [milestones](https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/milestones).**

### Cutting a Major / Minor release
#### A week before release day

1. **Make sure the [milestone](https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/milestones) already exists and is scheduled for the 

> correct date**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
correct date.**
```

#### Release day! 🚀

1. **At the start of the day, post a small message on slack announcing release day!**. Communicate you'll be handling 
the release, and the time you're aiming to start releasing (again, no later than 4pm, as issues may arise and 
cause delays)
2. **Go over the milestone and evaluate the status of any PR merging that's happening. Follow up with people on their 
bugs and fixes.** If the release introduces new bugs or regressions that can't be fixed in time, we should discuss on 
Slack about this and take a decision to go forward or postpone the release. The PR / issue owners are responsible for 
communicating any issues which might be release relevant.
3. Once everything in the milestone is taken care of, post a small message on Slack communicating you are about to 
start the release process (in case anything is missing).
4. **You may now do the release by following the instructions outlined in the 
[Rasa Open Source README](#steps-to-release-a-new-version) !**

### Steps to release a new version
Releasing a new version is quite simple, as the packages are build and distributed by GitHub Actions.

*Terminology*:

> * patch release (third version part increases): 1.1.2 -> 1.1.3

Reviewer: We changed to `micro`s. I'd also (or only) link to the standard which we're using.

* minor release (second version part increases): 1.1.3 -> 1.2.0
* major release (first version part increases): 1.2.0 -> 2.0.0

> *Release steps*:

Reviewer: out of scope: this seems like too many manual steps for a release 😬

1. Make sure all dependencies are up to date (**especially Rasa SDK**)
    - For Rasa SDK that means first creating a [new Rasa SDK release](https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa-sdk#steps-to-release-a-new-version) (make sure the version numbers between the new Rasa and Rasa SDK releases match)
    - Once the tag with the new Rasa SDK release is pushed and the package appears on [pypi](https://pypi.org/project/rasa-sdk/), the dependency in the rasa repository can be resolved (see below).

> 2. Switch to the branch you want to cut the release from (`master` in case of a major / minor, the current feature branch for patch releases) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Switch to the branch you want to cut the release from (`master` in case of a major / minor, the current feature branch for micro releases) 
```

>     - Update the `rasa-sdk` entry in `pyproject.toml` with the new release version and run `poetry update`. This creates a new `poetry.lock` file with all dependencies resolved.

Reviewer: sorry for creating another discussion 🙈 However, running `poetry update` seems to be enough, isn't it? We rarely  (never?) have any breaking changes in the SDK / Rasa Open Source interaction .

Author: I'm not sure I fully understand what you mean. Are you saying we don't need to do a Rasa SDK release for each Rasa Open Source release? 🤔

Reviewer: > Are you saying we don't need to do a Rasa SDK release for each Rasa Open Source release?

Let's say we need the SDK releases because we want the version numbers to be the same. 

However, there is in my opinion no need to force the users to use the latest SDK version (which we would do by raising the lower bound in `pyproject.toml`) unless there is a breaking change. If there is no breaking change, then it'd be enough to run `poetry update` which would only update `poetry.lock` to use the latest SDK version. Does that make sense?

Author: Ohhh I see! But then we should have a way for people to know if there has been a breaking change. Will tests fail if I try to simply `poetry update` and there has been a breaking change, per example?

Author: As discussed yesterday, leaving this as is 😊

    - Commit the changes with `git commit -am "bump rasa-sdk dependency"` but do not push them. They will be automatically picked up by the following step.
3. Run `make release`
4. Create a PR against master or the release branch (e.g. `1.2.x`)
5. Once your PR is merged, tag a new release (this SHOULD always happen on master or release branches), e.g. using
    ```bash
    git tag 1.2.0 -m "next release"
    git push origin 1.2.0
    ```

>     GitHub will build this tag and push a package to [pypi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/rasa)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    GitHub will build this tag and publish the build artifacts.
```

We host the site on netlify. On master branch builds (see `.github/workflows/documentation.yml`), we push the built docs to
the `documentation` branch. Netlify automatically re-deploys the docs pages whenever there is a change to that branch.

## Releases

> ### Release Timeline

Author: I was wondering the same, perhaps it would make more sense to move this section here indeed. I can do that 😊

**For Rasa Open Source, we usually commit to time-based releases, specifically on a monthly basis.** 
This means that we commit beforehand to releasing a specific version of Rasa Open Source on a specific day, 
and we cannot be 100% sure what will go in a release, because certain features may not be ready. 

At the beginning of each quarter, the Rasa team will review the scheduled release dates for all products and make sure 
they work for the projected work we have planned for the quarter, as well as work well across products.

**Once the dates are settled upon, we update the respective milestones.**

### Cutting a Major / Minor release
#### A week before release day

> 1. **Make sure the [milestone](https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/milestones) already exists and is scheduled for the 

Reviewer: should we add the name of the release owner to the milestone description?

Author: Hmm I mean we can but it adds manual work, which I am usually against unless there's a good reason for it. Do you see a big benefit in doing this? 🤔

Reviewer: It would be transparent for the community and also for Rasas who didn't follow the #product-engineering channel who is cutting the release.

Author: Hmmm I see your point. But does it bring benefit for the community to know the person who is cutting the release? (Also I figured all the Rasas were on #product-engineering ahah)

Reviewer: They are all in there, but I e.g. don't how closely the research team or CSE is following the channel. 

>  But does it bring benefit for the community to know the person who is cutting the release?

👍 True.

Let's skip adding it for now and see how it goes 👍

> correct date**

Author: Well supposedly the milestone will already be there, as we discuss all releases in the beginning of each quarter. This step is mostly to make sure the information in the milestone is up to date. Also because 1) it shouldn't be the job of the person tasked with cutting the release to create the milestone and define the date of release and 2) it can be useful for the person tasked with cutting the release to take a quick look at the milestone anyway.

But anyway I can remove this if it adds confusion, no strong feelings about it 😊

> correct date**

Reviewer: I fully agree with your points 👍 

For the 2.1 release we had to decide what should / can go in the release which in turn required the squads to plan for certain items in their sprint plannings. Considering that e.g. the loop squad has a biweekly sprint cycle, deciding on release content a week before the release doesn't seem to be timely enough. I'd vote for keeping this item, but changing it to `Two weeks. before the release day`. What do you think?

> correct date**

Author: Hmm, I'm not sure about this, because again these are instructions for whoever is cutting the release, and it should not be on their shoulders to sync with the squads on what *can* go into the release, that should be happening in parallel and between the squads and the product team. IMO, from the PoV of the person cutting the release, giving a first look at the milestone a week before the release day is more than enough to get an idea of what is still being worked on / what's in the release.

2. **Take a look at the issues & PRs that are in the milestone**: does it look about right for the release highlights 
we are planning to ship? Does it look like anything is missing? (don't worry about being aware of every PR that should 
be in, but it's useful to take a moment to evaluate what's assigned to the milestone)
3. **Post a message on the engineering Slack channel**, letting the team know you'll be the one cutting the upcoming 
release, as well as:
    1. Providing the link to the appropriate milestone
    2. Reminding everyone to go over their issues and PRs and please assign them to the milestone

>     3. Clarifying the scheduled date for the release

Author: ok perhaps "clarifying" is not the best wording, but rather reminding everyone of the release date 😂

> #### Release day! 🤘

Reviewer: I'd go with a more neutral emoji though it might be over cautious (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sign_of_the_horns) 😄 
```suggestion
#### Release day! 🚀
```

> 1. **At the start of the day, post a small message on slack announcing release day!** Communicate you'll be handling 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **At the start of the day, post a small message on slack announcing release day!**. Communicate you'll be handling 
```

> 1. **At the start of the day, post a small message on slack announcing release day!** Communicate you'll be handling 

Reviewer: Again: Isn't that too late? Engineers should be aware of who is cutting the release way before the release date in my opinion.

Author: Well just above (a week before) there was already a part of the instructions that asked for this same communication (so supposedly people already know a week in advance, but are merely reminded on the day as well) -- I personally tend to shoot on the side of over-communicating, but again if it adds confusion I can remove this second instance 😅

the release, and the time you're aiming to start releasing (again, no later than 4pm, as issues may arise and 
cause delays)

> 2. **Go over the milestone and evaluate the status of any PR merging that's happening. Follow up with people on their 

Reviewer: Again: Seems too late for me: In my opinion this should be done a week before the release and then maybe again 2-3 days to the release.

Reviewer: Should we also add something like: "The PR / issue owners are responsible for communicating any issues which might be release relevant."?

Author: But again, this is a repetition of what is already asked a week before on these lines, no? Or am I missing something?
https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/pull/7266/files/1ff7d8a06968795617ecc4d6df933ca1cd47742c#diff-b335630551682c19a781afebcf4d07bf978fb1f8ac04c6bf87428ed5106870f5R284-R291

Author: > Should we also add something like: "The PR / issue owners are responsible for communicating any issues which might be release relevant."?

I can add this, of course 😄

Reviewer: > I can add this, of course 😄

seems you've already added it 👍 

What about https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/pull/7266/files#r522968715 ?

Author: > What about https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/pull/7266/files#r522968715 ?

That was what I was referring to [here](https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa/pull/7266/files/1ff7d8a06968795617ecc4d6df933ca1cd47742c#r525030529) 😬  sorrt if that wasn't too clear 😅

Reviewer: Ah, sorry. Thought this relates to `The PR / issue owners are responsible for communicating any issues which might be release relevant.` part. 

I agree that it's somewhat duplicate. But can't we move points 1-2 to at least a day before? As release captain I don't wanna bother with these items on the release time. Also this approach doesn't work if a PR owner is e.g. in the United States and doesn't see the message until late afternoon European time.

Author: Ok I'll move this to `the day before release` 🚀

bugs and fixes.** If the release introduces new bugs or regressions that can't be fixed in time, we should discuss on 
Slack about this and take a decision to go forward or postpone the release. 
3. Once everything in the milestone is taken care of, post a small message on Slack communicating you are about to 
start the release process (in case anything is missing).
4. **You may now do the release by following the instructions outlined in the 
[Rasa Open Source README](#steps-to-release-a-new-version) !**

### Cutting a Micro release

Micro releases are simpler to cut, since:

- They are meant to contain only bugfixes
- They require no code freeze

> - They require no general QA pass

Reviewer: should we mention the need for QA in the major / minor section? We're mentioning it here for the first time.

Author: Ah indeed, I believe this was a bleedthrough from the Rasa X doc, my bad!

**The only things you need to do to cut a micro are:**

1. Notify the engineering team on Slack that you are planning to cut a micro, in case someone has an important fix 

> to add.

Reviewer: That might be a bit bold, but I'd drop this step. Worst case is we're cutting multiple micros.

Author: Hmmm, but we literally always do this, no? Why drop it? 🤔

Reviewer: I think it's an unnecessary dependency which we don't need. Why wait with a release - we can just cut another one 🤷

Reviewer: Up to you. I think both is fine 👍

Author: I think I'll keep it then 😊

> 2. Make sure the bugfix(es) are in the release branch you will use (p.e if you are cutting a `2.0.4` micro, you will 

Reviewer: Should we add that you're only allowed to cut micros from `.x` branches?

need your fixes to be on the `2.0.x` release branch)
3. Once you're ready to release the Rasa Open Source micro, checkout the branch, run `make release` and follow the 
steps + get the PR merged.

> 4. Once the PR is in, pull the `.x` branch again and push the tag!

Reviewer: can should we just link to `Steps to release a new version`? Seems redundant to me.

Author: Honestly the first time I cut a micro I was not too sure what was needed. Perhaps the issue is trying to do a 2-in-1, I think having release steps for minors separate from the steps for micros would be clearer 🤔  would that be ok for you?

Reviewer: sure 👍
